1. PING:
Ping (Packet Internet Groper) is a method for determining communication latency between
two networks or ping is a method of determining the time it takes for data to travel
between two devices or across a network. As communication latency decreases,
communication effectiveness improves. A low ping time is critical in situations where the
timely delivery of data is more important than the quantity and quality of the desired
information.
options:
1. ping - t :
It continuously pings a specific IP address or Web site. This process continues until it stops.
Press Ctrl + C to prevent/end the continuous ping command.
2. ping - a:
This command displays the computer name of the computer with the IP address you are
pinging.
3. ping -n:
This command assigns a specified number of Ping to an IP address and Web site. Its value is
4 by default. You can ping the number of times you specify by adding -n to the command.
4.ping -l:
When you usually ping to a destination, the packet size sent is 32 Bytes. You can increase
this value with the ping -l command. The ping packet size limit is 65,500 bytes.
5. ping -l flood Command
This command sends the packet size you specify without destroying the destination.
6. ping -c :
Specify the number of packets to be sent.
command
2. Traceroute:
The traceroute command is a network diagnostic tool used to track the path that data
packets take from your computer to a specified destination, such as a website or an IP
address. It helps identify network problems by showing each hop (router) the packets pass
through and the time it takes to reach each hop.
option:
1. tracert -d :
tracert will list the IP addresses of each hop. When it doesn't have to resolve hostnames,
the command also becomes much faster.
2. tracert -h maximum_hops:
set the maximum number of hops in the path to search for target. Default is 30 hops.
3. tracert -w <timeout>
Specifies the timeout in milliseconds to wait for each reply. Default is 4000 ms.
4. tracert -R <route_option>
This option routes each hop in reverse, from destination back to the source.
5. tracert -4 <destination>
Forces Tracert to use IPv4 for the trace.
2.command : netstat
The ’netstat’ (network statistics) command is a powerful utility used primarily by
system administrators and network engineers to monitor network connections and
performance on a computer running Windows. It provides detailed information
about network connections, protocol statistics, and topology, making it essential for
diagnosing and resolving network issues. The command can be used to display active
connections, listening ports, routing tables, and much more.
options :
1. netstat -a
The ‘-a’ argument tells ’netstat’ to display all active TCP connections as well as the TCP and
UDP ports the machine is currently listening to.
5
2. netstat -e
The ‘-e’ option instructs ’netstat’ to provide byte count statistics for network adapters,
showing you the total bytes and packets sent and received, and errors.
3. netstat -n
The ‘-n’ argument prevents ’netstat’ from attempting to resolve hostnames and displays all
IP addresses numerically. This avoids any delay or errors related to DNS lookups, ensuring
the settings and outputs are processed quickly and reflect actual IP address relationships.
4. netstat -o
With ‘-o’, ’netstat’ adds the process ID (PID) of each connection to the output. The PID helps
link open connections directly back to the process that initiated them, thereby combining
networking information with process management for administrator scrutiny.
6
5. netstat -r
The ‘-r’ switch provides a view of the system’s IP routing table, showing the network
destinations, gateway addresses, and interface lists. This exposes how system-tied routes
are managed and resolved across connected networks.
7
4. command : ipconfig
The ipconfig command is a powerful tool in Windows that displays all current TCP/IP
network configuration values and refreshes Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
and Domain Name System (DNS) settings.
options:
8
1. ipconfig /all
/all: Displays the full TCP/IP configuration for all adapters.
9
2.ipconfig /release
/release: Releases the current DHCP configuration and discards the IP address configuration
for all adapters or a specific adapter.
10
3. ipconfig /renew
/renew: Renews the DHCP configuration for all adapters or a specific adapter
11
4.ipconfug/review
12
5.ipconfig /flushdns
/flushdns: Flushes and resets the contents of the DNS client resolver cache.
5. Command: nslookup:
The NsLoookup command is used to perform network troubleshooting, fetch DNS
information, and verify domain configuration.
option:
1. NsLoookup <domain-name>
To lookup the IP of a domain name (domain name to IP address)
13
2. nslookup -type = mx
View Mail Exchange server information.
3. nslookup -type=ns
Name Server (NS) records store names of the domain's name servers.
14
4. nslookup -type=soa [domain-name]
Start of Authority (SOA) records provide authoritative information about the domain and
the server, such as the email address of the administrator, serial number, refresh interval,
query expiration time, etc.
5. nslookup -type=txt [domain-name]
TXT records contain important information for users outside of the domain.
6. Hostname:
15
The hostname command is a versatile tool used to display or set the system's hostname. A
hostname is a unique identifier assigned to a computer connected to a network.
Options:
1. Display the alias name of the host: hostname -a
2. Display the DNS domain name: hostname -d
3. Display the IP address: hostname -i
4. Display the short hostname: hostname -s
5. Display the version information: hostname -V
7. ARP command
ARP stands for “Address Resolution Protocol” is a protocol for mapping an IP
address to a physical MAC address on a local area network.
16
Option :
1. arp -a :
17
8. CURL:
Curl is a command-line tool used to transfer data to and from a server using various
protocols such as HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and more.
1. curl -o
This option specifies the output file for the response.
2. -v or --verbose:
This option enables verbose mode, which displays detailed information about the request
and response.
3. -s or --silent:
This option suppresses the output of the request and response.
18
4. -u or --user:
This option specifies the username and password for authentication.
